We will talk about a very interesting
topic and it is the difference between
managing projects in a traditional way,
that you would talk about PMP
before, etc., well, that PMP has evolved,
but it is born in another environment,
right?
and Agile.
And I love it because understanding
Agile philosophy is
absolutely key.
It is very easy to understand.
I will start by introducing it.
There are areas where there is little uncertainty.
What do I mean by this?
You know, at the business level, but
well, in general in life, do you
know what's going to happen?
Your affection is controlled.
Then all management, theory, literature,
what we have learned throughout
the history of management
topics, what has been given
in universities, in
business schools, has been
born in this environment.
Very little uncertainty.
Why is?
Because things changed more slowly,
because the markets were those,
mature markets where you know
what's going to happen, etc.
For example, entering a market that
exists, copying competitors,
are decisions of little
uncertainty.
You know that if I mount
a restaurant in the Plaza de
la Moraleja, next to another
that works, I put a little more,
I put good quality and so, it will work.
There is little uncertainty.
well well.
So when you face decisions with
little uncertainty, you can
manage the projects as you
have told us.
And now we go to the environment
of high uncertainty or uncertainty,
when you innovate, when you don'
t know what is going to happen, when
you don't know how customers will react.
This is increasingly greater.
In other words, the environment of little
uncertainty is becoming less and less and
the environment of high uncertainty is becoming
more and more.
Because the world is changing more and
more quickly.
So if what we do is apply what
we have learned, traditional project
management to environments
of high uncertainty,
we fail a hundred percent.
And that's why we need Linear
Startup, we need Jail, we
need this kind of things
to manage our company's strategy,
not to give of course what
customers want, to launch
new products to the
market, to manage
projects.
So today I would like you to explain
to us in the environments of high
uncertainty how projects are
managed under philosophy, what
are the main pillars of philosophy
to jail.
Once we are in environments
of high uncertainty, as you
said before, we can anticipate,
etc., I think there are
four fundamental pillars
on which we can start
to work on them.
And the first and most important of
all is to recognize that there
can be no fixed reach.
It is to admit that you don't know what
you are carrying.
To say it in...
Or you don't know where you want to go...
It is like a linear startup.
I start to make this, but as I
think this is what I'm going to
sell in the end, I'll find out.
I have to keep my mind open and
say, well, I'm seeing this today,
but...
and exact.
That is, from the basis that your
idea, however good it is, does not
stop being orientative, and all
along the way you will discover it.
That is.
The first thing to know to manage
a project in Jail is to start
from the fact that we don'
t know in advance what we're going
to find.
And for that I would like to rescue
the triangle we talked about before,
the triple restriction triangle,
in which first was the
fixed range and then the variable
costs and time.
Now it is the reverse.
We now fix the costs and let the
range be variable.
Another key pillar I would like
to comment on is the pillar of
prioritization.
That is, there was the mentality
that, as I knew everything in advance,
I wanted to approach the whole
project as if I wanted to recommend
an entire elephant.
Not here though.
Here is what...
This is the business plan.
The business plan for a lifetime.
You build a company, you have an idea
and so, I'm going to revolutionize the
world and I'm making a business plan
and the project will happen in 5 years.
The cash flow is 5 years.
That is ridiculous.
and exact.
It is not ridiculous, it is a lie.
That is, it is a lie.
The chances that your business plan will
be fulfilled in 5 years are as high as
the chance that you will reach the million
euro.
and exact.
More or less, right?
Use the colour and so on.
The collation of that is to be
proposed, he says, not only part of
the idea that you don't know what you
want in advance, the scope is not fixed,
but that also puts a focus on which
I have to consider that is fixed
in the upcoming cycles that
they call yesterday.
and yes.
You are doing a small cycle.
Instead of turning an elephant
into a big cycle, you do small
cycles to go measuring your startup
line-type hypothesis and corroborating it.
So I focus.
We need to know every day
what we prioritize.
What is most important now?
Because, of course, that's all this
is very important to understand.
If you have a business plan for five
years, well, it's like eating an
entire elephant.
and yes.
But when you say no, there is no business
plan for five years.
I don't know what will happen.
All I have to do is know how
to create more value today,
tomorrow, or this week.
and permanent focus.
Constantly reflecting.
Look at the impact.
Only of these two we have mentioned
so far, of variable scope, recognizing
it, and focus makes you consider
a very interesting derivative.
A traditional company asks
itself every day how cheap
it costs.
A company that works with
found methods asks itself what
is the next thing I can do that
adds value.
and yes.
This is essential for your adaptive
strategy.
So, besides having a range that
you recognize that you don't know
where you're going in advance, besides
focusing on the most important
thing always first, you have
a third that is working in
cycles.
If I used to plan a year to solve
a project and after a year
I had my solution, now you
have to, as you said well
before, piss it in pieces.
The elephant is it, right?
Eating an elephant.
We ate it, and today we eat it.
And it is already.
Today I am focused on this.
I forget it.
The mass is that you are bitter.
Because if you eat a little
good, but as if you are thinking
you have to eat everything, it
is like you get upset.
The projects have stopped...
I'm going to do a plan, we'll see in three
months and see what's going on.
Every week, every fifteen days,
every short cycle, as short as
possible, I am monitoring as to
my project and I am seeing if
it is effectively being met with
my goals.
I want this to be applicable
to people.
For example, we have meetings
every x time with the different
teams in which initiatives come out.
So, usually what is done is that
many initiatives come
out and everyone goes with
many duties.
Every day you check it out and nothing
has been done.
That's what it has always been, isn't it?
The typical.
So, this philosophy of sprints
or focus, what it is, what
helps us is to...
No, no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no.
Not many initiatives.
Not many initiatives in a year,
no, no, no.
In the next three days, do
this.
Today we do this.
And even like that, we all sit
down and do the same, but
in a sprint.
It is very well...
Concentrate all your effort.
In that sprint with a business goal,
of course.
Everything else is outside.
That's not the same thing to be thinking,
it's that in five years I'll
do this business plan, but that
for the week to come I have
this goal and I have to focus.
And only that.
And focus all your workforce
to it.
And that has fundamental changes, then,
in the positive consequences
it gives.
Change the whole way of organizing
work, because it was like it came,
for you are in charge of this, this
and this, you are in charge of this,
this and this.
In the end, nobody does anything.
And often you didn't even
know why.
You have not done any activity,
but I don't know what the
goal is.
Here you are quite clear that
what I'm going to do has this
linked business goal.
That is.
And your goal, until it ends, that
sprint, you just think about that.
And it is linked with the fourth
pillar, which apart from the variable
range, apart from focusing on what
I do, apart from going in short
cycles, is that I will be very
close to the end customer, the
end user.
The fact of allowing me to make
short cycles, to be focused and to know
that everything is variable, makes
me come very close to the client.